Add doc on how to use Istio Authorization with Knative and Istio mesh mode (#2583)
knative/docs: docs/serving/istio-authorization.md

---

> title: "Knative application under the strict authorization policy"

Reviewer: It's not clear to me from this title
1. What "strict authorization policy" is and why someone would need it for a Knative app?
2. Whether this section is conceptual information or contains steps to complete a task?

I'd try to make this clearer. Maybe something like:
"Enabling requests to Knative services when additional authorization policies are enabled"

Reviewer: I'm also wondering whether this belongs in a more Istio specific place, @mattmoor wdyt?

Author: > 1. What "strict authorization policy" is and why someone would need it for a Knative app?

"strict authorization policy" is an Istio's feature. It can control access to allow/deny, which Knative does not have. So someone would like to use it.

> Whether this section is conceptual information or contains steps to complete a task?

It is a "contains steps to complete a task"?

> I'm also wondering whether this belongs in a more Istio specific place

Yes, we definitely should belong in an Istio specific place. But I think I should open a new request to create the new hierarchy of the doc like:
https://knative.dev/docs/serving/istio/some-new-feature (istio)
https://knative.dev/docs/serving/kourier/some-new-feature (kourier)

weight: 25
type: "docs"
---

> When you deployed app to Knative Serving, serving system pods such as activator and autoscaler access to your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative Serving system pods, such as the activator and autoscaler components, require access to your deployed Knative services.
```

Reviewer: Why do these components need access to Knative services / apps? Can we explain this, because otherwise users may think it's optional.

> Hence, you have to allow the requests to your app when you configure security features such as istio authorization policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have configured additional security features, such as Istio's authorization policy, you must enable access to your Knative service for these system pods.
```

> > Tip: This example assumes that your application enabled istio sidecar injection.

Reviewer: This should be a prerequisite instead, and I think this whole doc should be somewhere specific to Istio.
@evankanderson @mattmoor I think we should probably have some sort of "Post-installation tasks" section that includes things like this but I'm not sure, wdyt?

>
> ```
> $ kubectl create namespace serving-tests

> > $ kubectl label namespace serving-tests istio-injection=enabled

Reviewer: Explain what these commands actually do. It looks like it's creating a namepace and labelling it for `istio-injection`, but it's not clear what this accomplishes. Is this how a user enables access to Knative services as mentioned earlier?

> ```

> > The following policy example does not work without sidecar injection.

Reviewer: Then why would a user use it? Is sidecar injection an option within Istio, so that we require both ways of doing this as options?

For example, the following authorization policy denies all requests to workloads in namespace serving-tests.

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  {}
EOF
```

Then, the following policy allows the request to `/` for your application.

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-app
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths:
        - /     # The path for your application.
EOF

> ```

Reviewer: Why would someone do this, what does it achieve from a user perspective?

> It generally works with Kubernetes application, but it does not work with Knative application.

Reviewer: Not sure why we show this either - we should document what _does_ work on Knative, not what doesn't?

```
$ kn service create hello-example --image=gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
$ curl http://hello-example.default.52.76.125.95.nip.io
(hang up)
```

> To access your application, you need to configure "whitelist" for the requests from system pods.

Reviewer: Sounds more important - I'd move this to much higher in the doc, before any of the examples.

> To access your application, you need to configure "whitelist" for the requests from system pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable access to your application for requests from system pods, you must whitelist the system pods in your Istio AuthorizationPolicy.
```

> There are several solutions but this section is going to explain two typical solutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable access by:
```

> [Allow access from system pods by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Allowing access from system pods by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths).
```

> [Allow access from system pods by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Allowing access from system pods by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).
```

### Allow access from system pods by paths

> Knative system pods access to your applcation by using the following paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative system pods access your application using the following paths:
```

> - `/metrics` is a path to collect metrics (e.g. autoscaler)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/metrics`
```

> - `/health` is a path to probe the service (e.g. activator, autoscaler, KIngres's probe)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/health`
```

> 

Reviewer: Add:
"The `/metrics` path allows the autoscaler pod to collect metrics.
The `/health` path allows system pods to probe the service."

Also, why do they need to probe the service? What does this provide?

> Hence you can add `/metrics` and `/healthz` to the whitelist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the `/metrics` and `/health` paths to the AuthorizationPolicy as shown in the example:
```

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: whitelist-by-paths
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths:
        - /metrics   # The path to collect metrics by system pod.
        - /healthz   # The path to probe by system pod.
EOF
```

### Allow access from system pods by namespace

> As an alternative, You can allow all access from serving system namespace knative-serving. It also make your applications work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can allow access for all pods in the `knative-serving` namespace, as shown in the example:
```

---

> title: "Enabling requests to Knative services when additional authorization policies are enabled"

Reviewer 2: Is this a doc for specifically the case when additional authorization policies are enabled or is it a general doc for using Istio authorization  with Knative and Istio mesh mode (per the PR title)?

Author: Yes, It is a general doc for using Istio authorization with Knative and Istio mesh mode.

weight: 25
type: "docs"
---

> Knative Serving system pods, such as the activator and autoscaler components, require access to your deployed Knative services.

Reviewer 2: What is meant by "access" exactly?

Author: The access for health checking and metric collection. I added them as `such as ...`.

If you have configured additional security features, such as Istio's authorization policy, you must enable access to your Knative service for these system pods.

## Before you begin

You must meet the following prerequisites to use Istio AuthorizationPolicy:

> - [Enabling istio sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/).

Reviewer 2: Two things:

1. How about "Istio sidecar injection must be enabled"?

2. Does it matter whether the sidecar injection is manual or automatic?

Author: > How about "Istio sidecar injection must be enabled"?

Yes, updated to  "Istio sidecar injection must be enabled".

> Does it matter whether the sidecar injection is manual or automatic?

No, it does not matter. I did not mention it in the doc, but should I? I think it is no problem without mentioning about the manual injection or automatic injection.

> - Using net-istio for your Knative Ingress.

Reviewer 2: What does this mean? Sorry, I'm not familiar with working directly on Knative.

Author: No problem. Knative can choose the network layer Istio,Kourier, Ambassador and so on. You can refer to:

https://knative.dev/docs/install/any-kubernetes-cluster/#installing-the-serving-component
> 3. Pick a networking layer (alphabetical):

I added the link for the doc.

## Enabling Istio AuthorizationPolicy

> For example, the following authorization policy denies all requests to workloads in namespace serving-tests.

Reviewer 2: Maybe highlight `serving-tests` in code format for consistency with the last section:
```suggestion
For example, the following authorization policy denies all requests to workloads in namespace `serving-tests`.
```

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  {}
EOF
```

In addition to allowing your application path, you must whitelist the system pods in your Istio AuthorizationPolicy
to enable access to your application for requests from system pods.

> You can enable access by:
> [Allowing access from system pods by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths).
> [Allowing access from system pods by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).

Reviewer 2: This could read slightly easier. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
You can allow access from system pods
[by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths) or 
[by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).
```

## Allowing access from system pods by paths

Knative system pods access your application using the following paths:

- `/metrics`

> - `/healthz`

Reviewer 2: When I tried following [the guide on authorizing access to Cloud Run on GKE services](https://cloud.google.com/solutions/authorizing-access-to-cloud-run-on-gke-services-using-istio) in the [example authorization policy](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-run-samples/blob/master/istio-authorization/authorizationpolicy-knative-serving.yaml) they provide for allowing requests from the `knative-serving` namespace they have additional paths:

- `/_internal/knative/*`
- `/probe`

Are they no longer necessary? Or not necessary for knative alone?

Author: These two paths are old paths. Since https://github.com/knative/serving/pull/7445 (I guess it was valid knative v0.14+), the paths `/probe` and `/_internal/knative/*` are not used.

> The /metrics path allows the autoscaler pod to collect metrics.
> The /healthz path allows system pods to probe the service."

Reviewer 2: I would codify the paths for consistency:
```suggestion
The `/metrics` path allows the autoscaler pod to collect metrics.
The `/healthz` path allows system pods to probe the service."
```

You can add the `/metrics` and `/healthz` paths to the AuthorizationPolicy as shown in the example:

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: whitelist-by-paths
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths:
        - /metrics   # The path to collect metrics by system pod.
        - /healthz   # The path to probe by system pod.
EOF
```

## Allowing access from system pods by namespace

You can allow access for all pods in the `knative-serving` namespace, as shown in the example:

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: whitelist-by-namespace
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
       namespaces: ["knative-serving"]
EOF
```

> Some rule like from.source.namespace above needs to require mTLS enabled.

Reviewer 2: Slight wording fix suggestions:
```suggestion
Some rules like `from.source.namespace` above require mTLS to be enabled.
```

> Ssome rule like from.source.namespace above needs to require mTLS enabled. 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
Ssome rule like from.source.namespace above needs to require mTLS enabled.
```

weight: 25
type: "docs"
---

Knative Serving system pods, such as the activator and autoscaler components, require access to your deployed Knative services.
If you have configured additional security features, such as Istio's authorization policy, you must enable access to your Knative service for these system pods.

## Before you begin

You must meet the following prerequisites to use Istio AuthorizationPolicy:

- [Enabling istio sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/).
- Using net-istio for your Knative Ingress.

## Enabling Istio AuthorizationPolicy

For example, the following authorization policy denies all requests to workloads in namespace serving-tests.

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  {}
EOF
```

In addition to allowing your application path, you must whitelist the system pods in your Istio AuthorizationPolicy
to enable access to your application for requests from system pods.
You can enable access by:

> [Allowing access from system pods by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths).
> [Allowing access from system pods by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Allowing access from system pods by paths](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-paths).
- [Allowing access from system pods by namespace](#allow-access-from-system-pods-by-namespace).
```

## Allowing access from system pods by paths

Knative system pods access your application using the following paths:

- `/metrics`

> - `/health`

Reviewer 4: /healthz

The /metrics path allows the autoscaler pod to collect metrics.

> The /health path allows system pods to probe the service."

Reviewer 4: /healthz

> You can add the `/metrics` and `/health` paths to the AuthorizationPolicy as shown in the example:

Reviewer 4: /healthz

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: whitelist-by-paths
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths:
        - /metrics   # The path to collect metrics by system pod.
        - /healthz   # The path to probe by system pod.
EOF
```

## Allowing access from system pods by namespace

You can allow access for all pods in the `knative-serving` namespace, as shown in the example:

```
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: whitelist-by-namespace
  namespace: serving-tests
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
       namespaces: ["knative-serving"]
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths:
        - /     # The path for your application.
EOF

> ```

Reviewer 4: Its worth mentioning that, If you use principal and namespace in the policies, Mutual TLS need to be enabled. If you are using jwt claims, mtls is not a prereq.

Author: Yes, we should. I updated the doc with the link to Istio doc.
